Viewers like you make
this program possible.
Support your local PBS station.
I start the day
with Morning Prayer.
Go through correspondence.
Try to keep on top of the admin.
Then it's meeting people
for weddings.
-christenings. funerals.
-Ah.
The whole arc of life.
Exactly!
Visits to the school. care home.
and halfway house.
Then book-end the day
with Evening Prayer.
And how much time is set aside
for these police cases?
Well. it's not an official part
of the job...
I'm just teasing!
Though I've never seen a pandit
make murder his business.
-A "pandit"?
-A priest.
Right... of course.
-Hey!
-Sorry!
I'm so sorry! Sorry!
Hey. stop!
Hey!
Stop!
-I didn't do anything!
-Then why run?
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Okay. okay.
I'm not going to hurt you.
so you can stop apologising
and start explaining.
It's a dare.
An initiation. really.
Procure a bible from a church.
-Steal a bible?
-Ridiculous. I know.
College hijinks.
Is this really the way you want
to spend your time
at university?
I'm not like this.
Never so much as stole
an apple in my life.
All the work
to get in here. and...
Well. I didn't realise college
would be like this.
You're a freshman?
Life rarely turns out
the way we expect.
Just... be yourself.
I fear being myself is
a hindrance.
But thanks.
I'd best be...
This initiation. this club.
it means a lot to you?
-What's your name?
-Norris.
Norris Featherstone.
Take this. Norris Featherstone.
"Alphaeus."
Thank you!
-I promise to return it.
-Well. I'll be waiting.
So this is
normal student behaviour?
Well. he's trying to impress
his friends.
Prove himself. It's...
It's natural.
My Goodness. were you like that?
I had my moments!
Yeah. why do you think
I got this car?
-It doesn't even have a roof!
-That's what I said.
Very impractical
and guzzles petrol.
And it's far too fast.
Please tell me
you're not bringing
another murder case to his door?
No. I've brought chips.
Oh. thank you.
I thought I'd see if you were
at a loose end. but...
Another time. perhaps.
No. no.
there's a bus in a minute.
if I want to catch a good train.
-I'd best get going.
-Oh. you sure?
I've had a wonderful time.
I'll get your things.
So he's given you
the grand tour?
It's very beautiful.
He's loving having you here.
He is. Yes.
You okay?
We live such different lives.
Well. just give it time.
-Here we go.
-Thank you.
Come here.
Bye.
Bye. Mira.
-It's a lot for her to take in.
-No kidding.
I don't think she had
Christian vicar
-on her bingo card.
-No.
But lots of families
have different beliefs.
Hmm. I believe jam goes
on the scone first.
Cathy believes it's cream.
It's a wonder we've lasted.
Bit more time.
The more she visits...
The more common ground
we'll find.
Just... you know.
tread carefully.
Hmm. Of course.
How bad do you think it is?
The worst I've ever seen.
The worst?
Frankly. I'm doubtful
there's a way back from this.
We're past the point
of no return?
At best. we're on the cusp.
The cusp of the point
of no return?
This could mark
the end of us here.
Because there's mould.
in the spare room?
What's really up?
Apart from the mould?
Nothing. Why?
Yesterday. you fixed
the garden gate.
And changed Mrs Bennett's tyres.
Today. you've been exploring
the spare room.
And I haven't done
the dishes in a week.
God forbid I try to be helpful!
The halfway house's empty
'til next month.
We've had fallow periods before.
-You don't usually get this...
-Industrious?
Bothersome.
If you had a hundred guests.
you'd still be like this.
What is it?
I'm missing the church.
We've finally found peace...
and you just want to...
to touch the iron!
I thought you'd moved on
from this.
I can't.
I had purpose there.
You have purpose now!
A spiritual purpose.
Helping fallen men is wonderful
but it's...
lacking in the divine.
And I need that.
if only for a few hours a week.
It's part of who I am.
If I took away your camera.
would you stop looking
for beauty?
Okay.
You need to talk to Alphy.
Ahem. yesterday's witness reports
for you. I'm afraid.
Really?
Christ on a bike.
-It was in the dark.
-Who cares?
He's got "guilty"
written all over his face.
This is totally unnecessary!
We are completely innocent!
It's these boorish warts
from Oxford!
Shoe the tabs!
Shoe the ruddy tabs!
Goddamn bloody Oxford!
Goddamn Oxos!
-Shut it. the lot of you!
-Quiet.
Take their names.
I was there! I saw him do it!
-This is ridiculous.
-What's all this nonsense?
Oxford lot are in town.
brawling down the Pickerel
with some of ours.
Barmaid got pushed in the river.
Didn't they do this
back in March.
with the bloody boat race?
It's not the rowers.
Rugby then?
As far as I can tell.
quiz teams.
Quiz teams?
Oi. Tring.
who said police efficiency...
Simon. let's not make this...
Shush. Norris!
Who said police efficiency
"is not measured
in the number of arrests.
but on the lack of crime"?
Henry Fielding! Too easy!
It was Robert Peel. you dullard!
If brains were dynamite.
you couldn't blow off your hat!
Come on here. Come back here!
Bobbies!
Bobbies. Bobbies!
Ah!
Bloody students.
You looking to get charged
with theft an' all?
Shove them in the cells
to sleep it off.
What about the rest of them?
Want to give 'em
"It's a Wonderful Life." boss?
Huh?
Make them wish
they'd never been born.
Ah. knock yourself out Larry.
It was him. That plum.
I can assure you that
this whole escapade
is incredibly out of character.
Simon has a spotless record
at Jesus College.
He's a brilliant. thoughtful.
conscientious student.
So conscientious he gave that
barmaid a free bath in the Cam.
I've every right to charge him.
Professor Adams.
I...
If anyone's to blame. it's me.
I invited the Oxford team here.
You invited them for a quiz?
University Challenge.
You must have heard of it?
The one with
the impossible questions?
That's it! Bamber Gascoigne.
Starter for Ten.
An aspirational statement
on English education!
I'm overseeing
the Jesus College entry.
I heard our sister college
were doing the same
and saw a way
to sharpen our minds
on the whetstone of competition.
Sharpen your minds?
More like bloody your knuckles.
Inspector. please strike this
up to the folly of youth.
And I will be
disciplining Simon.
and all of those involved.
I don't want to see
that lad again.
unless it's on the telly.
You won't regret it. Inspector.
Alphy. there's something
I'd like to talk to you about.
The thing of it is...
I've had time on my hands lately
with the halfway house
being empty.
Oh. that is perfect. Leonard.
because I've had none.
My mum's visiting again today
and I realised I need to start
cooking with her in mind.
I need ingredients.
Oh?
And not from
the village grocer's.
I-I could pop into town for you?
Thank you. Try the Kohinoor.
I-I'll give you a list.
and. Leonard. I'll owe you one.
DI Keating.
Boss. I need you
down at Jesus College.
I'm at a loss. Larry.
Didn't we just tell
these eggheads
-to stay out of trouble?
-We did.
Bloody students...
Christ.
Norris Featherstone.
Bedder found him this morning.
just after 11:00.
Was he at the station
last night?
Thought it might have been
a suicide
'til I saw that.
And there's this.
I gave this to him.
He was involved
in some initiation.
Had to steal a bible.
Did he say
what the initiation was for?
No.
A student club. I imagine.
So someone came in.
tied his hands
and strangled him
with this belt?
Well. we'll see what the Coroner
says. but looks likely.
These are college colours?
Hmm. but this is Jesus college.
so should be red and black.
There's no sign of forced entry.
so someone Norris knew?
Or who had access.
And these marks here..
might mean they tried
to hang him from the door.
"They"?
You think more than one person?
Well. it'd take two to lift him.
But state of it.
maybe one person tried.
the door gave out...
they finished the job
on the floor.
Have you spoken to his family?
His father's in a home.
Now I don't think he understood.
Mum's long passed.
He was all alone.
He was keeping some kind
of journal by the look of it.
His ink blotter.
Could be from the last thing
he wrote.
-"Barbara's tea rooms"?
-Hmm.
That doesn't give us much.
No. but we should check
if it matches anything
in his journal.
Knock yourself out.
You don't think the last thing
he wrote might be a clue?
Yeah. I think what was
in his pocket was a bigger clue.
Stimadryn but more commonly
known as Purple Hearts.
Yeah. mix of amphetamine
and barbiturates.
Doesn't sound like
the Norris I met.
'Cos you knew him so well.
That's awful. awful situation.
But you're wrong if you think
a fellow student did this.
Why's that?
If there is one thing I have
sought to instil in this team.
it's an ethos of camaraderie
and co-operation.
Then who else could've got in?
Must I do your job for you?
The porters? The bedders?
An unruly guest?
So anyone
but one of your students?
They are the best of the best.
What was Norris like?
Hmm. a keen mind.
Impressive recall.
Hmm. could've taken us
to the final.
Did he have many friends?
Hmm?
I'd like to understand
how he fit in here.
He was quiet.
I encouraged him along with
all the other candidates
to socialise.
Build a spirit of unity.
You know what these are?
Uh. I'd hazard a barbiturate
of some kind?
Ten points. Professor.
Any reason why Norris
would have them?
Anxiety issue. perhaps?
I'm going to need a list
of all your quiz candidates.
There is something
I should mention.
Last night. after the debacle
at the police station.
I checked that all
our Oxford guests were back
and in their rooms.
One of them was missing.
I found the fellow
wandering the courts.
This was at about 1:00 a.m.
And you didn't think
to mention this earlier?
I hoped you had
another line of inquiry.
-Who was it?
-Russel Tring...
When did you meet Norris?
Yesterday. For the pub quiz.
-Did you speak to him?
-I said hello.
There's no harm
in that. is there?
There was a fight.
Your tabs that started it!
"Tabs"? What does that mean?
"Shoe the tabs."
It's what his Oxford lot say
every time they kick off.
"Tabs" is Latin.
Cantabrigian... "Cantabs".
To shoe them is
to give a good beating.
Hmm. Like poor Norris.
Last night. Professor Adams
found you wandering the grounds.
Hunting for a victim?
No. I needed some air.
What. trouble sleeping. hmm?
Nothing to do with...
-What are they?
-Don't play silly buggers.
I have no idea.
There must be a thrill.
to represent your college
on University Challenge.
I guess so.
Hmm.
Do you wear the college colours?
You have a scarf with you?
Someone stole it.
Really?
Look a bit like this. did it?
-They make hundreds of them.
-Mm-hmm.
How many have the initials
"R. T." on them. Russell Tring?
-Where did you get that?
-What. you don't remember?
When you used it to tie
Norris' hands behind his back.
before choking him to death?
Christ. no. no. no!
I didn't do it!
-Russell...
-No. I lost that
when I came here last night.
Someone took it!
You've got motive.
you've got means.
and you've got no alibi.
Why would I kill someone
over a quiz?
I don't even know him!
28th Feb.
If old self broken.
cast him out!
Time to reject loneliness
and renew myself.
Aimed for Clark Gable.
Landed on Tolkien
at his most Hobbity.
I imagine Martha's grin.
The dirty laugh.
I miss it.
Naive to assume I'd fit in.
Couldn't be the man
father wanted.
Why would here be any different?
Martha was right all along.
Yeah. cause of death:
asphyxiation.
Alcohol in his system.
but not to excess.
And none of the Stimadryn.
Know it?
Double fisherman's knot.
Very hard to tie
behind your own back.
So someone else restrained him.
Roll down the sheet.
That's heavy bruising.
Looks like he's been beaten.
Hmm. Some recent. some older.
Or maybe he was being bullied.
These are cigarette burns.
Do they pre-date Russell
and the Oxford team arriving?
Well. yes. but it was
strangulation that killed him.
and Russell was around for that.
Aren't you just a little
bit curious about all this?
I mean...
He writes about not fitting in.
He didn't know who he was.
His teammates.
maybe they know something.
Here is your starter for ten.
Finish the poetic sentence
that begins.
"Know then thyself.
presume not..."
"Presume not God to scan.."
"The proper study of mankind
is Man."
-Correct.
-Excuse me...
Not yet. please!
For five points each.
which cities...
Excuse me. I need to talk to...
You can see we're in the middle
of a round!
For five points each.
which cities are the location
for the following
Shakespeare plays?
Firstly.
a Midsummer Night's Dream?
-Athens?
-Five points.
Second. The Taming of the Shrew?
Oh. Padua? Is it Venice? Um...
-Venice?
-I'm afraid it was Padua.
And third. a Comedy of Errors?
Oh. um... Ah... Goodness.
I'm afraid I've to hurry you.
Ephesus.
Is this college aware
of the aggressive
initiation practices
you have for your quiz team?
We're a dedicated bunch.
but hardly the Bullingdon lot.
Norris was covered in bruises.
He could be a bit... clumsy?
Bright lad?
Never revised.
He just absorbed it all.
-Did you know him well?
-Don't think anyone did.
Quiet little oddball.
I only knew him
as our art and lit specialist.
And your specialism?
I'm more an all-rounder.
Captain-type. I've got
the trophies to prove it.
You ever use these
to think quicker?
Why? What are they?
Don't play dumb. son.
Look. they're not really
my cup of tea.
Was Norris using them?
He offered them to all of us.
I saw him talking to
one of the Oxford lads.
probably pushing on them. too.
I need Russell Tring
out of his cell for questioning.
A Professor Adams is
in with him.
said it was his responsibility
to check on Russell's welfare.
He's in with him now?
That's enough! Enough!
You killed him!
You killed him. you bastard!
You've no alibi
for Norris' murder.
and now you're attacking people.
This is not looking good.
Russell.
Attacking Adams.
here of all places?
It's not a rational action.
You're clearly upset.
Talk to us.
We can help.
I did know Norris.
We went to the same school.
We were...
friends.
It was more than that.
wasn't it?
I'm investigating a murder.
not anyone's romantic interests.
It was more.
But my parents sensed it.
Forbade us
from seeing each other.
So. separate universities.
That was that.
He started writing to me.
You're "Martha".
From his journal.
-"Martha"?
-From my surname. Tring.
Tring's where
George Washington's
family came from. so you know.
Martha Washington.
You didn't fancy just "Russ"?
No. Norris was keeping
your name out of his writings.
so no one would know.
That's when he came up
with this mad idea.
"Let's both get
on University Challenge".
A legitimate way of seeing
each other again.
There must have been
easier ways?
I wish!
It's bloody hard.
But you made it. You met up.
Norris wouldn't talk to me.
All this way. all this effort.
and he was avoiding me.
Wouldn't say a word.
Why do you think that was?
Did he offer you
the purple hearts?
No. That's not his thing.
Russell. what were you doing
out of your room
when Professor Adams
spotted you?
I thought Norris might talk to me
in private.
But he didn't answer
because he was dead
on the other side of that door
'cause of Adams.
Norris wrote to me.
He said that Adams had wined
and dined them at a Chop House
'til they got thrown out.
Then he held it over them.
He said. "Meet my standards
or face expulsion."
Adams was trying
to silence Norris.
You have these letters?
No. I...
I burned them.
I was worried I'd get found out.
Then it's your word
against Professor Adam's.
I believe him.
Hmm? He's spinning a sob story.
It's a lover's tiff
that got out of hand.
Okay. what about the words
on the ink blot?
They don't match anything
in his journal.
What if the murderer stole
the last thing he wrote?
It's an easy win. Alphy.
Go home.
Your mum's up today. isn't she?
Yeah.
Yeah. she'll be
on the train now.
Orchard Tea Rooms. I thought.
-Then a quiet supper at mine.
-That sounds lovely.
This is everything.
They were so friendly!
Never been called "Dahl"
so much in my life.
Leonard. you are a lifesaver
I owe you for this.
Well. I did wonder if you could
speak to the bishop for me?
Hmm. What would I be asking?
If I could come back
in some form or other.
A lay preacher perhaps?
I want to feel like I'm doing
God's work in the community.
Of course.
You know it's a long shot.
But I'm seeing the bishop
in a few weeks. so...
I'll talk to him then. hmm?
That would be marvellous.
I thought we could go through
my old photographs later.
Maybe you could bring
some of yours next time.
-Or I could come to you.
-Yes. you must.
You don't need to be spoiling me
like this.
I'd be happy with tea
at your house.
Oh. it's a
Grantchester tradition!
Tea amongst the trees.
Oh. I've got to take you
to the Fitzwilliam.
And there's
a fantastic library...
I'm here to see you.
Alphy!
Oh. Meg! Oh...
Fancy meeting you here.
-Oh.
-Oh. sorry. uh...
Oh. uh. Meg. this is Mira. my...
My mother.
Uh. Mira. this is Meg.
-Hello.
-Oh. wow! Very nice to meet you.
How do you two know each other?
He kept visiting my library.
It has all the best books.
It's hardly the Wren
or the Pepys.
Dad says you've been well.
You asked about me?
I overheard him mention
the loony with a Triumph Herald.
Your father?
Oh. er... Her father is
the bishop. my boss.
I shouldn't interrupt.
but I had to say hello.
Let's catch up again.
I'd love that.
Is she your girlfriend?
My girlfriend?
No. no. no.
-We're just friends.
-Aren't you breaking a vow?
I... I'm not Catholic.
But people are looking.
-Nobody's looking.
-We'll get thrown out.
Let's go.
Thrown out?
Thrown out.
The staff would remember that.
Come on.
Alphy. Mira.
everything all right?
Can I use your telephone?
I've. er...
Well. I've got a hunch.
Sure.
Have a seat. Mrs... Kottaram?
Uh. Kohli.
My name is Miss Kohli.
It's hard to tell whether
he's more copper
or vicar sometimes.
It's quite a puzzle.
Er. he's happy. isn't he?
Yes.
Especially now he's found you.
But he... he was happy before?
I think so.
I... I worry...
I'm going to break his heart.
No. you'll never.
Alphy's in this
for the long haul.
If you're not. please
don't mess him about.
Geordie.
Russell said the quiz team
got thrown out
of the Chop House.
Well. I just rang them.
There was
a regular student meetup.
which got quite lively.
staff insulted.
property damaged.
Like the quiz at the Pickerel.
The ringleader was called Simon.
Simon who was in our cells
when Norris died.
Sure. but if Professor Adams
was pushing these students
arranging these events...
We've got the Oxford lad for it.
Geordie. Russell said
Professor Adams
was trying to silence Norris.
We have to follow this up.
Er. I've got to go.
But I'll see you
at the vicarage for dinner.
You used the incidents
at the Chop House
to put pressure
on your students.
I ensured the stakes were high.
Did Norris challenge
your methods?
Threatened to expose you?
No. My methods are sound.
I tried to help Norris.
He refused!
He refused the purple hearts?
Fine. Yes.
I suggested Stimadryn.
It isn't dangerous.
Norris would have benefited.
Sharpens the edges.
lets them work for longer.
Sounds a lot like
cheating to me.
They study harder than anyone.
And for that. I reward them
commensurably.
And if the price
of these excesses
is a restaurant's cleaning bill.
well. so be it.
These boys are the peak
of human achievement.
Yeah. they're not artists.
or inventors. they're...
they're human textbooks.
They're thoroughbreds...
who will run the commerce
and government of this country.
Not chase petty thieves.
or preach fairy tales
to the elderly.
There it is.
The old town and gown prejudice.
On the point
of intellectualism...
It's simply a fact. Inspector.
Really?
Your lads wouldn't
last five minutes
against Alphy here.
Well. if you can cobble
a team together.
we'll happily take you on.
But until then...
we have nothing
further to discuss.
He's hiding something.
We have nothing on him.
Mm. Then we keep digging.
Alphy...
Stop.
You keep pushing and pushing
and rooting for these two lads.
because something's
chimed with you.
But people turn on each other
over nothing.
You know. pointless.
stupid deaths.
When did you become so jaded?
When did you become so naive?
Why did you bring your mother
into the station?
To show her my world.
It was weird.
And you shouldn't...
What?
Just lower your expectations.
I'm all right for advice.
Thanks.
That smells delicious.
We've brought a trifle.
Uh...
Dinner's just me and Mira.
Oh. I...
I thought we were
all part of the...
-Oh. dear.
-weekly routine.
Mrs C and Jack are coming. too.
Hmm.
Miss Scott.
We had any reports
of break-ins or thefts
from chemists recently?
I'll look into it.
Er... maybe we should
just start?
Jack!
I'll just...
I'll just check on the. um...
She could still make it.
I won't if we wait any longer.
After all that trouble.
She's not coming. is she?
My first husband. Ronnie.
disappeared during the war.
For ten years.
I thought he was dead.
And then out of the blue.
he came back.
What happened?
I hoped for the best
and got the worst.
I've come to think it's better
to do the opposite of that.
It's...
It's not like that. Mrs C.
It's not a trick.
or a trap.
Something came up.
she couldn't call.
That's it.
Everything's fine.
I heard about last night.
I'm sorry. Alphy.
Did she leave a message?
I don't know what I did wrong.
It wasn't you.
She did not like the tea rooms.
Saw Meg there.
She didn't like her either.
It won't be that.
I mean. I've done okay.
haven't I?
Maybe it's not about
you doing well.
Maybe it's about being
in different worlds.
I'm sorry
I got shirty yesterday.
Don't be.
You were right.
It's easy to get
a thick skin in this job.
Listen to your vicar.
That'll be on my gravestone.
Our last words.
We never looked
into Norris' last words.
Not asked the right person.
Does this mean anything to you?
"Barbara's tea rooms"?
"Finest in Southport."
At least according to the sign.
Norris and I went
for a day trip there.
We walked the promenade.
Bought candy floss.
By the time we got to Barbara's.
all we could afford
was a glass of milk.
Sorry. It's silly.
No. not at all.
Go on. please.
You know.
this waitress came over
and she brought these cups
of tea and cakes and jams.
And we panicked.
We hadn't ordered it.
We would be
in such trouble. you know.
She pointed out this
very well-to-do looking lady
at another table.
Said we reminded her
of her son and his friend.
She paid for the lot.
We ate like kings...
and then we ran back
to the station.
I had to get the early train
back. but. erm...
That was the last time
we were properly together.
And no one else knew about this?
Not a soul.
If Adams did it. he's seen
the last thing Norris wrote.
And that phrase.
"Barbara's tea rooms".
You know.
maybe it implicated him
and he took it.
We can't prove it.
I've found you a thief.
The chemist on Hills Road
had a break-in last week.
Student-type in a tweed jacket.
They took all their Stimadryn.
Snap.
Same bottle we found on Norris.
He was stealing them.
Or he was being forced
to steal them.
Like your Bible.
That's more than a prank.
That's...
That's risking arrest.
Maybe they had
something over him.
Maybe they knew
his inclinations.
Adams!
Still not proof.
Well. we need to
make him confess.
Hmm? How?
"The play's the thing."
The play?
-Hamlet.
-Yes.
Professor Adams.
I accept your challenge.
-My what?
-My team versus yours.
You're not serious!
Well. if you don't think
you can win...
Oh. we'll win.
Well. then it's on.
You know what to do?
Ah. Professor.
Here we are. Just a vicar
with a theological diploma.
Two grammar school
educations and. er...
-School of hard knocks.
-Yeah.
Distinction.
Yeah. you can't have
a mixed sex team.
That's absurd.
Why not? It's a friendly game.
I'm sorry.
but she's a distraction.
And for who?
Yourself?
Too late.
I'm already spoken for.
Yeah. I... I didn't mean...
Fine.
But if you intend to make
a mockery of this competition.
I'll see you all thrown out.
-Absolutely.
In April 1912. Harriet Quimby
became the first woman
to fly solo
over which body of water?
-The English Channel.
-Correct.
After oxygen and hydrogen.
what is the most abundant
element in the hydrosphere.
-Chlorine.
-Correct.
-What?
-Which Protestant ruler
was deposed
by the Catholic Mary 1st
and sentenced to death in 15...
Lady Jane Grey.
-Correct.
-Bloody hell.
Moving on to the next round.
London. Moscow. and Helsinki.
Woodrow Wilson.
The Northwest Passage.
The Battle of Thermopylae.
Correct.
The powdered ash of burned kelp
and other seaweed.
is a source of which element
in the halogen group
used in photography?
Iodine?
-Correct.
-Yes! Thank you. Daniel.
The Rod of Asclepius
is the symbol of which branch
of science?
Is it medicine?
Correct.
Which character sings
A Wand'ring Minstrel I in...
That's Nanki-Poo.
Correct.
The Battle of Bosworth Field
was the last significant battle
of which civil conflict?
The Wars of the Roses.
Correct. Your starter for ten.
Lincoln Cathedral.
Sigmund Freud.
Mercury.
What is the name
of the tea rooms
widely regarded
as the best in Southport?
Barbara's Tea Rooms.
Correct.
Nothing.
-Geordie.
-Hmm?
Norris' final letter.
Trophy hidden in a trophy.
So. Barbara's Tea Rooms.
I heard the name somewhere.
It doesn't mean anything.
It meant a lot to Norris.
He wrote about it
the night he died.
I was in your cells
when he died.
I had nothing to do with it.
You're right.
Norris' last letter
was a suicide note.
See?
So no one was murdered.
-I've done nothing wrong.
-Then why did you hide it?
This is ridiculous.
I kicked you out of here
at 09:00 a.m.
The bedder found Norris
at 11:00.
You had time to get
in his room. to find him.
But you didn't report it.
Because it's lies.
Norris lied. He couldn't hack it
and he blamed me.
He says you tormented him.
That Adams pitted you
against each other
with carte blanche
to dish out beatings
and humiliation.
And you... you...
You took that to the extreme.
No. I tried to make
something of him.
You punched and demeaned him.
You put out cigarettes
on his arm.
And when you learned
of his inclinations.
you forced him to steal
more purple hearts
after Adams
turned you on to them.
And then you accused Norris
of being the dealer.
No. you didn't have to kill him.
because you made him
want to do it himself.
And you hid the letter
because you were so scared
of us all finding out exactly
what kind of man you are.
I think you hated Norris
'cause he didn't
have to cram and take pills.
He was better than you.
And he didn't even care
about University Challenge.
He just...
He just wanted to see
his friend again.
You can't hold me accountable
for his failings.
If he took his life.
that's on him.
You can't arrest me.
You've got all the answers.
But you don't have
a bloody clue.
You found Norris
dead in his room
and bound his hands to make it
look like murder by Oxford.
You hid the letter.
which you could have burned.
but were too cocky to let go of.
And then...
you lied to us.
You're facing life imprisonment
for perverting
the course of justice.
Five minutes. Larry.
Larry. I said...
-Chief Inspector.
-Geordie. may I?
Of course.
I'm going to guess
Jesus College has
made a complaint?
No. but thanks for the tip off.
Anything I should be
worried about?
We just ruffled a few feathers.
Anything I should be
worried about. sir?
There's a position
about to become vacant.
Mine.
You're retiring?
Well. the golf course
fondly beckons.
I'm happy to be out of it.
But I'd like to know
that I'm leaving
the station in safe hands.
And I wondered if you would
be interested in applying
when the time comes.
Bloody hell.
I figured I'd be doing this
till they cart me out in a box.
Obviously. it's a step away
from the front line.
It's more operational.
It's a lot
to think about. I know.
But do think about it.
Sir.
Norris would want you
to have this.
"Dearest Martha."
I'm afraid I've got myself
in a terrible mess.
My nature has been uncovered
and it's put me in servitude
to a monster.
Simon Bailey.
Odd how such
a small and prosaic name
contains my undoing.
"but there it is."
My name. yeah. Simon Bailey.
He's the reason
I kept my distance tonight.
Russell Tring.
Couldn't give him more munitions
for his war on my soul
"and drag you
into this hell. too."
I took your scarf.
Honestly. you've no idea
what an absurd dandy
you look in it.
I don't think I've ever
been so in love.
I want you to know
that I truly hope
you find your purpose.
That you make better
choices than I did.
But most of all.
I want you to know that
in a short. uneventful life
you made me happy.
Remember us...
I don't know where to start.
With sunshine.
shared cigarettes.
and cakes
at Barbara's Tea Rooms.
The finest in Southport.
I'm just sorry that this time
I caught the early train.
I'll be here at the next station
waiting for you.
Forever yours...
Norris.
Any messages?
Parish council's postponed.
And Mr. Lowell
asked to borrow a rake.
Nothing from your mum.
I'm sorry.
-Hey.
-Alphy.
Hello again.
I was hoping I'd catch you.
I wondered if you'd like to go
for a bite and a catch up?
Oh...
Alphy. that's sweet. I...
I mean. I'd love to. but I...
You've got plans?
I've got plans.
Oh.
Ha! Right. I...
No. I guess I thought...
We're friends. yeah.
-That's what we decided.
-We did.
We did. Erm...
I'm sorry.
I can't believe
you found your mum.
That must be bliss.
It's great. Yeah.
I'm so happy for you.
I really am.